Docker Compose provides a great way to get multiple
containers up and running on your system,
but what do we do as we're ready to move to a different environment?
For example, you might have a staging or production environment,
and now we want a very robust way to run our containers.
Well, up to this point,
we've seen how we could just run Docker Compose up
and get different containers going, such as nginx,
different APIs, even databases if we wanted,
and something like Redis if we were using that for caching.
But as we move between the different environments,
how are we going to manage our containers? Because with Docker Compose
it's going to be more manual, somebody has to run those commands or
program something to run those commands, and what we do is we want to
scale and do other types of things.
Well, Docker Compose actually does have a scaling feature,
but it's not designed for things like load balancing.
Docker Compose has a policy where you can restart containers if they fail,
but that's about it.
Anything you want that's more robust for production, you're kind of on your own.
In addition to gracefully handling containers that may fail, what if you
want to scale and load balance your different containers?
Well, Docker Compose does provide some scaling features,
but it doesn't provide any load balancing features.
So if you want to run your containers on multiple VMs and
then load balance between those nodes, if you will,
then Docker Compose isn't going to help you there, and that might be a
big deal depending on what your production needs are.
So wouldn't it be nice if we could do the following
things across our different environments?
First off,
package up an app, provide a manifest, and let some other tool manage that
for us; not worry about the management of containers; eliminate single
points of failure, and even self‑heal containers if they have a problem;
have a really robust way to scale, but not only scale, also load balance
across our different containers.
What if we could update containers without bringing down
the application and even have some robust networking and
persistent storage options?
Well, all of these are obviously good things to have,
and Docker Compose does quite a bit, but again,
it was never really intended to be the production environment,
even though you absolutely could use it if somebody had set up the
commands to run across your different environments.
So what if we could define containers we want, hand it off to a
system, and basically tell that system, hey,
here's what I need, now make it happen, you manage it.
Well, welcome to Kubernetes.
That's what it can do for us, and that's what we're going to start looking at next.